the way they define therapy is
a remedy cure
a process designed to remedy cure or
abate a disease disability or problem
and if we look at the core coaching
competencies
what we see is that coaching is not
necessarily about fixing something
that's broken it's about
designing actions setting goals holding
people accountable
so we're going to start actually by
talking a little bit about
how coaching is different from therapy
so if a client comes to you and asks you
know is this something that i should
talk to a coach about or something that
i should talk to a therapist about how
would you all go about answering like
how do you decide like whether something
is appropriate for you to discuss with
uh
uh like with a client like how do y'all
know what is appropriate for coaching or
what is appropriate for therapy
how do y'all think about that
whether it involves diagnosis
okay
so uh jake help me understand like why
that's important
i can't diagnose anything and if it's
there's a clinical illness there then
that's just kind of out of my skill set
okay
all right what do other people think
i draw that line kind of at the um
like we can talk about it in both
honestly
but it's what we work on that's
different so in coaching we work on
awareness
like becoming more familiar with
whatever the issue is
getting more information about it and
then
therapy would be more treatment of the
issue and kind of direct response to
whatever is going on
okay great so i i all right so i think
that's that's a good perspective as well
that like you can talk about it in
coaching but that treatment or therapy
has a particular direction and any other
people anyone else have ideas
oh for me it's when i get the like
certain sentiment
when that when we're talking about like
specific like mental health like issues
and you start actually using like
medical terms and then
when i get the sentiment that they're
like looking for me to like answer that
or like come up with a actual like
solution
um to like a specific mental health
issue that's when i usually start that
conversation with the client
okay
so let me ask you all a question so like
if we can't treat diagnose and treat
medical conditions what do we do
like how do we help people
we help them understand themselves more
to sort of take agency or control over
their mental health but in a way through
coaching is through creating something
good from it okay
other people have thoughts thanks ken
yeah i think one thing that we
definitely do is like emotional
awareness like helping them become aware
of like their emotional state how that
gets in the way of like what they want
to do
yeah so i think that that's that's a
really good way to put it so what we're
going to do so this is kind of these are
the opinions of of you as coaches right
so we're go what we're going to do is
take a step back from y'all's opinions
which i'll summarize in a second we're
actually going to look at
different organizations and like
different pieces of data from therapy
and coaching and we'll sort of let you
all kind of see whether your answer is
right or wrong okay so what i'm hearing
first of all is that we're not you know
licensed mental health professionals
that are used we're not able to diagnose
and treat particular medical conditions
or any medical conditions which i agree
with 100
and at the same time the reason that we
talk about things like let's say anxiety
or like you know whatever negative
emotions you have is to raise awareness
of them
[Laughter]
and once you have awareness of them you
can actually use that information or
understanding to
succeed in whatever goals or targets you
set for yourself is that fair to say
right so we're about increasing
understanding but for the purpose of
application
so the first thing that i'm oh host is
disabled screen sharing
okay
can we screen share please
we have certain ethical responsibilities
that we adhere to i think you all
understand this very well um things like
privacy and stuff like that mandatory
reporting all that kind of stuff falls
into here
um so co-creating the relationship so
establishing trust and intimacy with the
client the ability to create a safe
supportive environment that produces
ongoing mutual respect and trust i think
this also makes a lot of sense
um
so
coaching presence the ability to be
fully conscious and create spontaneous
relationship with
a client employing a style that is open
flexible and confident you know we're we
want to be present flexible it's all
this kind of like you know feel good
coaching presence like oh man like uses
humor to create a lightness and energy
like that's great you know it's like all
this like okay fine like would what is
this like how does this help anyone okay
so this is like the early stuff okay
we'll we'll get to interesting things so
now we get to number five which is
active listening so this is where you
know we train y'all to be like very
active listeners to you know pick up on
things that clients may not understand
themselves um also overlaps a lot with
what you see in therapy training right
so therapists are also trained
listeners powerful questioning i think
this also kind of comb like it has
overlap between coaching and therapy
where coaches are really good at you
know we try to
be competent at asking important
questions that sort of catalyze insight
also very common in therapy
or necessary in therapy so direct
communication so i'd say that all three
of these things are like very similar in
therapy but we'll see that in a second
okay so active ques uh active listening
powerful questioning and direct
communication okay so like all this is
fine and all but still kind of fluffy
stuff right so why would you kind of go
to a coach
and so this is where i think coaching
and therapy really starts to
differentiate but we'll kind of you all
can judge yourselves but and then we get
to number eight which is creating
awareness so you all have sort of said
you know we try to help our clients
understand things
so the ability to integrate
and accurately evaluate multiple sources
of information and to make
interpretations that help the client to
gain awareness and thereby achieve
agreed upon results so this is sort of
exactly what y'all were talking about
earlier right so
the goal of coaching is to increase
awareness and the goal of that is to
leverage that increased understanding to
help someone achieve what they want to
in life
designing actions so this is the ability
to create you know um
ability to cr work i guess this is a
grammatical error the ability to work
with a client to create opportunities
for ongoing learning during coaching and
in work-life situations and for taking
new actions that will most effectively
lead to the agreed-upon coaching results
so now we sort of start to see that a
big part of coaching is like setting out
kind of plans and designing actions that
are tailored to the individual
shortcomings strengths and weaknesses of
a particular client
and then we get to planning and goal
setting so this is a core part like if
we're talking about you know the 11
things that coaches are supposed to do a
big part of it is understanding
designing actions planning and goal
setting
and then
managing progress and accountability so
this is like another important thing
which is that coaches oftentimes when
clients come to us you know we'll sort
of set targets for them they'll set
targets for themselves and it's our job
to kind of be there and sort of help
them work through if they run into
trouble or like what's going on and
eventually we want to get to the client
to where their goal is
okay so that's coaching i think that's
yeah
so those are the 11 things now let's
take a look at um
therapy okay
so this is the national association of
social workers so social workers in the
united states are the largest percentage
of therapists so the highest number of
therapists in the us are actually
clinical social workers so let's see
what they say about what therapy is
okay so
they have these different standards
you know like
but that's a little bit different it's
not really what their practices
okay so clinical social workers
represent the largest group of
behavioral health practitioners in the
nation they're often the first to
diagnose and treat people with mental
disorders and various and emotional
emotional and behavioral disturbances
they work are essential to a variety of
client centered settings blah blah blah
um
uh social worker so clinical social work
has a primary focus on the mental and
emotional mental emotional and
behavioral well-being of individuals
couples families and groups
it centers on a holistic approach to
psychotherapy and the client's
relationship to his or her environment
um clinical social work views the
client's relationship with his or her
environment is essential to treatment
planning so i'm going to pause here for
a second and i'm just going to ask y'all
like what do you all see is the
difference between
the approach in coaching in the approach
in clinical social work
if any
would you all say that they're the same
it kind of seems like in
therapy the social worker is kind of
choosing
what it is and kind of diagnosing what
it is about the
client's life that they feel like needs
improvement whereas in coaching it's
more client centered as far as what they
want to work on
okay that's a really good point so
i don't know that i'd entirely agree
that
coaching is more client-centered
but i would completely agree that
generally speaking therapists are
working with a preconceived model of
like diagnosis and treatment so the
process that they go through right so if
we kind of look at like you know they're
they're often the first to diagnose and
treat people with mental disorders and
various emotional and behavioral
disturbances
that um you know clinical social work
views the client's relationship with his
or her environment is essential to
treatment planning
so i'm with you there that they
definitely use a particular framework
that they kind of slot people into
other people have thoughts about you
know what's different
if anything
i'm not saying this to be rude but it
almost sounds like
it takes the human out of it
okay um
yeah so i i would say that that's maybe
that's just an unfair representation
because we're kind of comparing apples
and oranges here
in the sense that like this is just the
introduction to the document we were far
more detailed so maybe the human will
emerge we'll actually look at like a
curriculum in a second and and further
that out
other thoughts
okay
so um next thing that we're going to
kind of look at is like you know if we
look at how a clinical social worker is
trained right so like these are the core
competencies that icf coaches are
trained in right about designing actions
goal setting and planning accountability
so you know this is the important thing
is that if you look at clinical social
work so it's state regulated that's
fantastic coaching is completely
unregulated anyone can say hey i'm a
coach and can start charging people for
coaching
so i think what we see is there's a
minimum of two years or three thousand
hours in a supervised clinical setting
so i think like the key thing that i
sort of notice here is that um
you know clinical social work is
clinical so therapy is like clinical in
nature and that's something that we've
also talked about
and that if you kind of look at it it's
about treatment planning it's about
taking a holistic approach absolutely to
like you know the client and the
relationship with their environment and
things like that
um but that overall like clinical social
workers are trained in a model that's
primarily primarily clinical
focuses on diagnosis and treatment so
let's see if we kind of go down for a
second and let's uh let's just look at
the definition of clinical social work
so clinical social work is the
professional application of social work
theory and methods to the diagnose
treatment diagnosis treatment treatment
and prevention of psychosocial
dysfunction disability or impairment
including emotional mental and
behavioral disorders right so this is
how the national association of social
workers defines therapy and if you guys
like look at this what i kind of see is
like the emphasis is on diagnosis and
treatment of different kinds of
disability dysfunction it doesn't
necessarily have to include a diagnosis
right so therapists don't have to work
with people who only have diagnoses but
their goal is absolutely like treatment
and prevention of particular kinds of
dysfunction disability or mental
disorder
if we kind of look at you know
psychotherapy so psychotherapy is a
specialized formal interaction between a
social worker or other mental health
professional and a client in which the
therapeutic relationship is established
in order to help resolve symptoms of a
mental disorder psychosocial stress
relationship problems and difficulties
in coping
uh in the social environment
so then they'll kind of go into
different things different options and
then they kind of define the therapy as
a systematic process designed to remedy
cure or abate some disease disability or
problem so this is the key thing that i
want you all to understand so if you
look at the like the largest
organization of therapists in the united
states
the way they define therapy is
a remedy cure
a process designed to remedy cure or
abate a disease disability or problem
and if we look at the core coaching
competencies
what we see is that coaching is not
necessarily about fixing something
that's broken it's about designing
actions setting goals holding people
accountable so i think about and this is
kind of is a no-brainer when i sort of
say it this way but clinical work is
about pathology right so like as a
clinician if you look at the training
of social workers if you look at the
accreditation of social workers if you
look at therapists medical doctors are
even more so this way because we're even
more medicalized than social workers i
think social workers in that way are far
more holistic pay attention to like
relationships and environment and stuff
way more than medical doctors do
um but really the goal of coaching is i
kind of think about it as moving forward
whereas opposed to or building something
new as opposed to therapy which i really
think about is like focusing on
pathology or fixing something that's
broken so the big difference for me in
terms of whether someone is appropriate
for coaching or someone is appropriate
for for therapy is like what's the
primary goal is the primary goal to fix
something that's broken or is it to
actually achieve something and like have
some kind of even if there are things in
the way so i'll give you all kind of an
example so let's say like my goal is
like okay i want to get rid of my
depression because i feel depressed so
that's something that a clinician should
do whereas if i want to you know switch
jobs but i feel like burnout and
depressed if the goal is switching jobs
some amount of emotional awareness may
be necessary as a coach to help them in
achieving their goals and that's kind of
why we focus on awareness and
understanding it's not to fix the
problem per se
in clinical treatment treating
depression is the end goal whereas in
coaching the reason that we work with
you know clients depression and anxiety
we're not trying to treat it it's a
means to an end does that make sense
any questions about that
okay so if y'all want to we can take a
second to just look at like the actual
curriculum and training
of um
you know like a an actual you know
psychology curriculum so this is like a
psyd program but if you kind of look at
this like you know what are they trained
in
so adult psychopathology like
development you know assessment like
intelligence tests and things like that
history and systems of psychology like
psychopathology like let's look at adult
intervention
one and let's just see what they say
so this is just a course that's not
focused on psychopathology
so this course covers primary approaches
to treating adult clinical problems
right with an emphasis on treating adult
axis one disorders
so we can see that in if you look at
like psyd curriculums and like phd
curriculums and therapy curriculums like
let's take a look at supervision we'll
kind of see what the focus here is
so let's read some of this so students
will prepare supervision by obtaining
and utilizing data about current
historical formulation behavioral assets
making
excesses to make diagnostic
determinations
you know treatment formulations
um translating clinical questions
so uh administering scoring interpreting
and integrating reports from
psychological testing results
providing consultation
uh
by beginning to provide individual
couples family and group treatment and
evaluate the efficacy thereof and it
kind of goes on right so incorporating
current empirical theoretical findings
into assessment treatment and
consultation so if you kind of look at
the training of a psychologist or a
therapist
you know most of it is going to be like
clinical in nature so it's going to be
focused on pathology focusing on people
who are like coming to clinics so there
are people who are you know seeking
medical treatment for some kind of thing
now a lot of psychologists will say
and i would agree with this that our
therapist will say that oh we don't just
focus on the clinical stuff we do
non-clinical things as well which makes
perfect sense we saw that in clinical
social work definition right that they
sort of do things that are not
necessarily diagnosing and treating but
if you look at the training and
perspective it's all kind of focused on
pathology like that's what the actual
training is in
whereas if you look at the training of
coaching it's really more about you know
goal setting motivation
designing actions supporting people to
like achieve what they want to